= FAQ =

==What's a Visual Novel?==
It's a less-popular game genre (compared to MMORPGs, RTS, FPS, etc.), mostly used in dating sims. But it's more than that. Think Choose-Your-Own-Adventure meets graphic novels.

==Why make another engine?==
Actually, this just started as a study in HTML5 that has gone a little too way out of hand. :) Admittedly, there's a lot of better engines out there.

==How do I play a Visual Novel?==
Normally, it's just read, click on the choices and continue. VNs usually have little or no gameplay. Unless you add minigames, but VN players are not usually arcade players.

For vn-canvas, however, I borrowed some features from VN's distant cousin RPG, such as map and tile navigation. This is a less direct way of asking the question "Where do you want to go?", and gives the player some "exploration" capabilities for non-linear play.

==Can I sell something I make with it?==
I'm no expert in licenses but I think so. What I'm providing you is a free pen and paper to write your novel, but the novel is entirely yours to do whatever you want with it.

==Can I help?==
Sure why not. I appreciate feature requests, bug reports, patches, etc. Also, I do not have access to other platforms, particularly IE9/Win7, Safari/MAC, iOs, Android, iPhone, etc. So any help on the above is very much welcome.

==If I make something with it, do you require anything in return?==
Nope. Nada. Even credit or link back is totally optional. I'd like to see what you did though. I'm not asking for a copy of your work, just maybe a link to your site or a couple of screenshots, just for my "bragging rights". :)

==What are those different downloads and different versions (vncanvas-0.x.js)?==
Those are just versions I keep for history and tracking. Sometimes, some code may get broken because of updates and it is usually useful to have some working code to revert back to.
If you only need the latest, just get the highest numbered download or the highest versioned javascript. Note however that the build version at SVN may be newer than the packaged download versions.

==Why are the versions named after girl's names?==
That's just a fancy way of calling Alpha, Beta, etc. versions. Might as well stick with it. :)