= Features = 
Takes advantage of new HTML5 features, e.g. canvas and audio tags (with more on the way including video, local file access and forms), as compared to other engines such as JS-ViNE: A JavaScript Visual Novel Engine by J. David Eisenberg which uses mostly standard HTML4 elements.

Targeted specifically for visual novels, so it contains none of the overhead caused by extra features (which visual novels aren't going to use anyway) in generic game engines, such as Construct2 - HTML5 game creator by Scirra Ltd. and Enchant Javascript Game engine by Ubiquitous Entertainment Inc.

Simple enough to use even by non HTML and/or javascript programmers. A game maker or story teller need only concern himself with the story itself, like directing a movie or play.

Cross platform on any HTML5-capable browser without the need for additional plugins or extensions. That means, it runs on Windows, Mac, Android, or anywhere these modern browsers run on. (Have only tested though on Firefox, Chrome and Opera, so if you're willing to give it a shot on the other browsers, feel free and please give me feedback.)

Resources (e.g. images, audio) are loaded on-the-fly and not preloaded at the start. So you don't have to wait 5 minutes watching a progress bar that gets stuck on 88%. There will be lags however in between frames as resources get loaded, but with faster internet connections or even offline play, these will hardly be noticeable.

Best of all, it's built using free tools at zero budget. :)

= Revision History =
12.26.11 - Simplified 'set' and 'jump'
12.25.11 - Added actor avatar
         - Updated checkpoint saves to include avatar and forms
12.24.11 - Added video for intros, cutscenes, endings
         - Updated demo and docs
12.21.11 - Added forms (buttons only... so far)
12.20.11 - Added basic saves using checkpoint
         - Completed initial demo
12.08.11 - Added overlay and atmosphere basics
12.06.11 - Added actor basics
12.05.11 - Added script box, flow control using jump
12.01.11 - Basics for background image, music/sounds, flow control using wait
11.27.11 - File creation